good afternoon or good evening wherever
you may be listening in the world this
is Lazlo Montgomery once again with
another edition of the China history
podcast he has promised today is the
first in a series of dynastic overviews
from the first Chinese dynasty to the
last I've been getting a lot of mail
these past several days regarding doing
shows chronologically and also sticking
to the way I've been doing them up till
now sort of jumping around in and out of
different eras of Chinese history
ancient and modern looks like there's
quite a lot of you out there who sort of
liked it the way it was and we're gonna
keep it that way
I don't want to pear wishy-washy or
anything but what we'll do for now is
introduce the dynasty starting with the
Shah today and maybe go up to about the
Qin period I covered the qin dynasty in
my first podcast episode when we looked
at the first emperor of a unified china
so we'll do both the dynastic overviews
and also some other topics that might be
of interest to you today we look at the
SHA dynasty this was the first dynasty
of China and let me put air quotes
around the word dynasty we're really
digging deep deep deep into Chinese
history and trust me when I say it's
real slim pickins when it comes to
material that can be trusted about this
time period if not for the records of
the grand historian and the bamboo
annals there hardly be anything to tell
you except for the legends that are
associated with this time even the time
period isn't known I scoured the web my
personal librarian google books for
anything and everything covering the
show I found conflicting info on the
period in question some said 20 70 BC
the 1600 BC 1989 to 1550 8 BC 2100 to
1600 BC 22:05 to 1776 BC sort of all
over the place some even say the first
three dynasties all ran concurrently the
Shah the Shang and the Jo like the
Tigris and Euphrates in Mesopotamia the
Indus River Valley in India and the Nile
in Egypt
China's earliest beginnings were the
product of a great river valley in this
case the Yellow River the Yellow River
is the world's sixth longest at
5,500 kilometers although these days
parts of it resemble a dry lake more
than a river that's where it all began
for China the Yellow River it was known
by many nicknames but the one I always
remember was China's sorrow joined with
a tongue it wasn't a very deep river
especially in the lower courses where
our story begins
going back to the cradle of Chinese
civilization and for the next 4,000
years that followed the Juanjo or Yellow
River flooded 1,500 to 1,600 times and
even changed course half a dozen times I
first saw the Yellow River myself back
in 1980 when I was inching on in
Shandong Province its yellow is all I
could say all that silts that originated
in the plateaus out west give it that
distinctive color if you don't mind I'm
just gonna leapfrog all the Chinese
Neolithic cultures and get right into
the subject for today the Shah dynasty
and that's spelled X I a and the pinyin
system of Chinese romanization I
explained that X sound in the last
question-and-answer podcast in the old
way child system it's written HS I a it
was the first of China's three dynasties
of the Bronze Age the Shang and the Jo
being the other two to round out this
trio in fact you can call the shop
period a Neolithic dynasty this is the
period oh say about four to five
thousand years ago when metal copper and
bronze mostly starts to become prevalent
in the great civilizations that were
starting to form the Neolithic period or
some refer to it as the new Stone Age
started around 10,000 or 9,000 BC and
then sort of blends into the bronze and
Iron Age which just sort of slowly
Peters out this is the case with the SHA
time period in China now the Jo dynasty
the third of these three dynasties was
the only one that left any written
records of their time period that means
everything and everything we know about
the Shah and Shang dynasties comes from
records written after the fact for this
reason we refer to the Shah is a
legendary dynasty even if you go with
the 2070 BC is the approximate start
date that's almost 40 100 years
ago this period to give you a time
reference was a good 500 years after the
Great Pyramid was completed in 2560 BC
the Old Kingdom and Egypt is ending
about now and the Middle Kingdom period
is just starting so it's hard enough to
get solid info from history from even
500 years ago so you can imagine what
kind of data there is to accurately tell
the story of the Chou dynasty there's a
lot of speculation and analysis from
some very smart historians
archaeologists but the Shah doesn't have
much if anything to show for itself
that's why the appellation legendary
will often precede the name of this
dynasty the population of China back
then was about 1 to 2 million people all
living in various states or kingdoms led
by whoever the local strongman or leader
was they were constantly warring with
each other and there wasn't even a hint
of any unified central government China
still had a good two millennia to go yet
before the likes of Chi Chuan deep
molded all these warring States and
kingdoms into one central Chinese state
the Shah lasted approximately four
hundred and thirty-nine years by most
reckoning and according to cemaat Chen's
great work the Sergi or records of the
grand historian there were seventeen
Emperor's from this dynasty suma Chen
once again as I mentioned in previous
podcasts is called the Herodotus of
China and he referred to the Shah as the
first dynasty suma begins his work with
the son Huang deep or three sovereigns
and five emperors a quick rundown on the
San Huang or the three sovereigns
depending on which sacred texts you're
reading the three were foo XI and his
Queen nu WA who gave mankind the idea of
marriage music writing painting fishing
with nets how to domesticate animals and
how the whole silkworm thing worked Fuu
she died and was followed by shun Nome
the second of the three sovereigns shun
known as his name suggests since the
word Nome means agriculture and a known
mean is a farmer introduced agriculture
to the people and gave the plough to
mankind he also introduced market
and trade and is also credited with
creating Chinese medicine that used
natural plants and herbs the third some
say was one D the Yellow Emperor but an
equal number of texts also called the
third sovereign the three-eyed
Sreedharan he was the Prometheus of
China as he gave fire to man and taught
him how to use it
Huang D or the Yellow Emperor as I just
said is considered the first of the five
legendary Emperor's the descendants of
the first three dynasties in Chinese
history the Shah shang and cho all
claimed lineage from the Yellow Emperor
he is the originator of Chinese culture
the first son of heaven inventor of
garment making boats vehicles of
transport houses and palaces all Chinese
according to the mythology would be
considered descendants of the Yellow
Emperor in quick succession you had the
Yellow Emperor followed by his grandson
Tuan shoe the Emperor kou the Emperor
y'all and last but not least Emperor
Xuan our story as far as the Shah
dynasty is concerned begins with Emperor
Yao now it was said that during the time
of Yao and shun the primitive
patriarchal society started to develop
into more of a monarchical style during
the time of yow
the yellow river was flooding like crazy
and causing all kinds of devastation as
the legend goes
Yao sought help from the people to come
up with some sort of way to control this
river and all the flooding that was
caused by it
a man of reputation as a problem-solver
named Gooden was chosen by Emperor Yao
to take on this great task to control
the flooding Goodin tried all kinds of
methods dams dikes and what-have-you
after nine years of trying
he failed now during this period when
Qin was trying to relieve the flooding
Emperor y'all handed power over to the
last of the five Emperor's chuan and it
was shun who seen goons failure had him
banished her executed for the crime of
not pulling through on such an important
mission and so it fell upon gwin's son
named you to finish the job that his
father started it is written that you
you was born in Sichuan in modern-day
page1
some of you may remember this town as
ground zero for the massive 2008 Great
Sioux Tron earthquake you left B chuan
for sunshine known as one of the five
sacred mountains of China sunshine was
just south of the Yellow River right
smack dab in between law young and dong
zhuo in Hunan Province Chinese kung-fu
enthusiasts might be interested to know
that Shaolin Temple was also right close
by song shan now year was fully
cognizant of what his father tried and
failed to do and he was resolved to
succeed as a way to sort of avenge his
father's honor and so the legend of you
the great begins with the taming of the
floods now here was a great great
grandson of the Yellow Emperor and a
grandson of Tuan Xu and he's a certified
hero in Chinese folklore he was
described as an active prompt capable
and diligent man his virtues were
prominent and His goodness made him
beloved by the people and his word could
be trusted you worked on this problem
for 13 years
the most famous story from this period
concerned his selfless commitment to the
task at hand during the period of 13
years he made it back to his hometown
three times and on each of the three
occasions did not even enter his home
but instead kept walking right past it
so selflessly devoted was you to solving
the problem of the flooding first that
he ignored his family in favor of
completing his work you traveled the
entirety of the realm at the time which
was centered around present-day Hunan
shun she and Xiang XI notice those last
two provinces now here's a quick sidebar
on Chinese language and this one always
tripped me up you have two provinces in
China right next door to each other they
are both spelled sha n X I in the pinyin
system of romanization but one is
pronounced Xiang XI that's first tone
first tone and the other one's
pronounced shy she third tone shun then
the same exact carrot
characters she that's a good example of
how just a slight difference in tone
changes everything well to make things
easier the China government officially
spells Xiang XI as SH double a and X I
and Sheng Shi as sha NX I it's bad
enough that they are homonyms but why
did they have to be right next door to
each other to even to this day sometimes
I have to stop and think xi and xi
honors as shun XI or Sheng Shi anyway
portions of these three provinces is the
area where we're concerned with and it
was through these three provinces that
the Yellow River ran and still runs
today as a matter of fact you made a
unified plan to control the problem and
use dredging and canals and levees as
his method to relieve the flooding he
had all these streams and ditches
dredged and channeled the flood waters
out to the sea his method worked and
great honors were heaped upon him Xuan
presented you with a dark Jade scepter
and announced to everyone the
achievement of you
he then presented you to the heavens and
proclaimed him his heir then 17 years
later Xuan died and you became the
Emperor his dynastic title was lord of
sha and his family name was you was
given the appellation of the great by
you he's referred to you the great he
became the first king of the Chou
dynasty now other than this legend of
the floods and how you the great tamed
them and became the Emperor it is really
thin gruel indeed about the rest of the
shot dynasty in fact the matter of
succession to you the Great's is about
all there is to the story and then for
the next 14 Emperor's there aren't even
any wild legends to talk about it's not
until the last emperor of the Chou
dynasty that you get a little bit of
meat in that thin gruel as I said there
are no written records or even hard
evidence of the existence of the Chou
dynasty everything we know comes from
either Sumatran or from the bamboo
annals of about 300 BC the way Kings
were chosen up until use time was
through the process of meritorious
succession
whoever was the best man for the job got
the job but it was with you that we get
the first hereditary dynasty now you
chose his own successor amongst his
tribal chiefs a man called call y'all
but he didn't survive you the great and
they had to think of a plan B now you
came up with someone named Bowie but
once you died somewhere near Shaoxing
and judgin province you son named Chi
was elected in Bowie's place what
happened to Baal ye no one knows I've
read accounts that he was killed by Chi
so the leadership passes from father to
son and here we have the first
hereditary dynasty so let's just fast
forward four and a half centuries to the
17th and last ruler of the Chou dynasty
emperor Jia Yu the Great and Emperor Jia
are sort of like a pair of bookends one
at the start and one at the finish of
the Chou dynasty one went down in
history revered almost as a God and the
other well he's remembered as an evil
tyrant who personified all the things
that one normally attributes to a bad
emperor extravagant wasteful more
concerned with carnal pleasures than
matters of state or the welfare of the
people you know stuff like that
every civilization from every corner of
the world is littered with these kinds
of characters samaa chen alleges that
the show knew the people who we
discussed in the Chi Chuan podcast could
be traced to Emperor Gia's son the show
knew were a thorn in the side of the Han
Chinese throughout history or at least
till the time of the Tang Dynasty
there's an old legend regarding Emperor
gia that every source I read mentioned
he was infatuated with his evil
concubine named washi he humored her
ridiculous request one day to have a
lake constructed and filled to the brim
with wine instead of water enough for
3,000 soldiers to jump in and to drink
it dry the legend has it that they all
drowned and that the sheer
outrageousness of this request made for
a great legend and whether or not it
happened who
but they definitely pinned it on TIA and
it was something he had associated with
his name that showed what kind of a
ruler he was there were all kinds of
natural disasters and astronomical
anomalies during the time of Chia that
were mentioned in the ancient writings
stuff like this is usually associated
with a ruler who loses the Mandate of
Heaven
there was a virtuous man who was part of
Gia's Court named Yin Yi who came from
the state of Shang he tried to advise
Jia to cool it and be more of a man of
the people but Emperor Jia would have
nothing of this well this year he ended
up throwing his lot in with Qing Tong of
the Xiang State the Shan State went from
being one of the many States subservient
to the Shah but ended up defeating Jia
in battle and forced him to flee to nan
Chao in present day on play where the
last emperor of the Shah dynasty died in
1675 BC once Qing Tong saw that the Shah
was in decline he initiated a number of
wars that ultimately led to the demise
of not only the wicked Emperor Jia but
his dynasty as well
it was 1675 BC when the Shah ended and
the Shang began like I said at the
beginning the dates aren't agreed upon
some say 1675 BC the Shah ended and
others say 1600 BC and it's the Shang
Dynasty that we'll look at in the next
podcast there is only two words that
come to mind when I think of the tion
and that's oracle bones the xiang people
didn't leave any written records that
survived to modern times so all we have
is whatever archaeologists have been
able to dig up so we'll cover what a lot
of people call the first real dynasty of
china and trust me when i say there
isn't much to hang on to and it's only
slightly less legendary than the Shah
I hope you'll tune in when I hear that
one so for now this is Lazlo Montgomery
once again wishing everyone a fond
farewell from blissful Claremont
California 907
one the one the only keep those
questions topic suggestions and comments
coming and feel free to visit my website
at China History podcast.com take care
everybody